This archive contains the (anonymized) raw data and analysis code used for _Fecal metagenomics to identify biomarkers of food intake in healthy adults: Findings from
randomized, controlled, nutrition trials_ by Shinn et al. The following is a description of the files in the archive as well as instructions on how to re-run the analysis locally:

- `LICENSE.md` describes the open-source licese under which the two scripts (but **not** the data) in this repository are released under.

- `data` contains the metagenomic data (raw KO counts from MEGAN6) described in the paper along with limited particpant metadata. It also contains various mappings and links retrieved from the KEGG database at the time of writing. **Note: This data is currently not yet posted online. Please contact the authors for more information about data availability.**

- `figures`, `kegga`, and `results` are empty folders for the following analysis scripts to store results in. 

- `ko_dge_ml_analysis.py` performs most of the analysis described in the paper, including count normalization, differential gene expression analysis, machine learning analyses, and plot generation. The file is ready to run from this repository as-is provided the dependencies in `requirements.txt` are met. Use `pip install -r requirements.txt` in your Python 3.7+ (virtual) environment to install all required dependencies for this script.

- `kegga_pathway_analysis.R` performs the pathway enrichment analysis described in the paper. This analysis relies on results generated by the previous script, so it must be run after `ko_dge_ml_analysis.py` has populated the `kegga` folder. The R packages "limma", "glue", and "dplyr" are required to run this script and must be manually installed. Once these packages have been installed, the script is ready to run as-is.